[THEME MUSIC]
>> The holistic world of healing
includes plants and herbs
channeling energy as well as
both spiritual and physical
modalities.
Healers are
multi-dimensional beings
who dance between the realms
of the seen and unseen.
These individuals
have the ability
to facilitate a shift in
people, offering them insight
and support, reconnecting people
with themselves and the greater
collective, healing the
world one person at a time--
healing from the other side.
>> The planets are like
lenses which focus the light
of consciousness as it descends
into the earthly realm.
And so at any given
moment, those lenses
are in a unique configuration.
And if you catch that moment
and draw a chart for it,
you've got a map
of consciousness.
I'm Rod Suskin.
I'm an astrologer.
And I have been an astrologer
for about 30 years.
An astrologer these days is
someone who basically consults
with people on a
one-to-one basis,
a little bit like a
psychologist or a lawyer
might do in a private interview.
And we use that space to
give people understanding
of themselves, guidance about
what's going on in their lives,
and a little bit about
the future as well.
I'm also an African
diviner and healer,
which we call a
"sangoma" over here,
and sometimes use my
astrological skills as a form
of divination for that as well.
I was actually drawn to
astrology at a very young age,
when I was 10 or 11 years old.
I don't remember
why, but I definitely
knew about my own star sign.
And I went on a little trip
with my uncle and aunt,
and they bumped into
a friend of theirs who
was drawing astrological
charts, these wheels,
and I started asking a million
questions about what that is.
And he told me what
book to buy, and I did.
And from 11 years old, I
started drawing charts,
and it just seemed to me the
most logical, obvious thing
to eventually just do
with the rest of my life.
If you understand the
regularity and repeatability
of how nature works, and if
you understand that we are part
of that nature, then you gain
the power of predictability,
then you can predict
the outcomes.
It's really what we do
with all our sciences.
We use past knowledge to
predict the future outcome.
And astrology is an early model
of the human experience linking
us to the bigger cosmos,
which does exactly that.
>> Astrology is an ancient
practice that claims to discern
information about human
affairs and terrestrial events
by studying the movement and
relative position of stars
and planets.
Many cultures have
attached great importance
to astrological events and have
spent centuries studying them.
For many people
around the world,
there is comfort
and encouragement
in uncovering the
mysteries of the universe
and the cosmic guidance it
provides, offering people
insights and tools
that can assist
them to achieve their dreams and
reach their highest potential.
>> I'm going to be reading
the charts for Marina.
And reading a chart really means
looking at that map of the sky
and understanding the
positions of all the planets
and the relationships
between them.
And the knowledge of
astrology shows us exactly
then where in their
various cycles
they are, how are they
relating to each other,
and that describes what
we could conveniently call
the karma of the individual.
In the same way that if someone
drew a map of your human genome
at the moment of your birth,
it contains the information
about your entire
life and the future.
It's all there at the beginning.
And the geneticist could
perhaps come along and say
you definitely have blue eyes.
You're likely to
have that illness--
greater likelihood,
lesser likelihood.
And with that knowledge, you
understand your parameters,
and you can even make some
lifestyle changes that perhaps
might avoid that illness.
Astrology works the same way.
It's a model that
says, from this map,
we all-- everything is
there at the beginning,
and you can describe the
unfolding of the life.
So I will do that
with Marina's chart
and be able to give
her-- it's like a mirror
to reflect herself.
A lot of it is, of course,
familiar for adults.
And by gaining that objectivity,
just like in a regular mirror,
we can take control.
And so a chart
works the same way.
It works like a mirror--
lets her see herself
more objectively
and then, in times of choice
and decision or what's going on,
can usually make a better
decision or choice.
>> My name is Marina Rossa.
I'm from Italy, and I've arrived
in Cape Town eight years ago.
So I am a video game
translator from Italy.
I translate video
games from English
into Italian, which
is a lot of fun.
And I grew up in
the north of Italy.
I'm the only child--
loving parents, very
different from each other.
My dad is very hardworking,
super ethical, pragmatic man
that doesn't believe
in anything spiritual.
He's very grounded.
He doesn't speak much.
My mom, she's a totally
hippie-- musician,
believes in pretty
much everything.
She will be the one to sew a
little medallions of saints
into my clothing before I go
on a journey to keep me safe.
So growing up with
these two differences
made me quite confused
but at the same time quite
open-minded.
In Italy, astrology
is really popular.
So, actually, we'll have
the news during lunchtime,
and there is always the
nationally appointed
astrologer.
Well, I remember
growing up looking
at this astrologer on
national television,
and he just never
seemed to get it right.
He seemed like a bit of a fraud.
And, yes, I never
quite believed him.
Nothing ever happened
that he said will happen.
And everything he
said was very generic.
It could have
applied to everybody,
so I never quite believed.
And when I left Italy
for my traveling,
I went traveling
for seven years.
And I didn't quite
know where I fit.
I was quite cynical.
I didn't believe in nothing.
But during my travels,
I've seen some things,
and I felt some things that
made me doubt everything.
So now I am more open-minded
about everything.
So pretty much my current
view is I don't deny anything
and I don't believe in anything.
You'd say maybe I'm
agnostic, even when
it comes to astrology.
But I'm very curious about it.
I know it's a science.
It's a proper art with a
lot of knowledge involved.
So I wanted to
check it out and see
how it goes in this session
with this very famous astrologer
that everybody is talking about.
I just want to see what he
gets right with me giving out
as little as possible.
Because I'm willing to believe.
I'm open.
So I just want to see
how good is this guy.
So I do believe that
we are connected,
and we all come from energy.
We're made of energy.
So why shouldn't
the planet alignment
and the date of our birth
not influence our lives?
Maybe it does.
So I'm curious to
see how it goes.
>> Hi, Marina.
>> Hi.
Hi, Rod.
Yes.
>> Please come inside.
>> Thanks.
[AMBIENT MUSIC]
>> Throughout most
of its history,
astrology was considered a
scholarly tradition and was
common in academic circles,
often in close relation with
astronomy, alchemy,
meteorology, and medicine.
Advocates have defined astrology
as a symbolic language, an art
form, a science, and a
method of divination.
With the information given,
you can test your compatibility
and find out how
your love and work
relationships rank with your
partner, colleagues, friends,
and family.
With this information,
she said that one
can unveil the meaning
behind their past, present,
and future.
It is astrologers that make this
information available to us.
They are the stewards and
conduits of the stars.
>> So, Marina, what we
have here is what we call
your astrological chart.
It's literally a map of the sky
at the time that you were born.
And from that, I can tell you
various potentials and so on.
The interesting
thing, of course,
I'm going to have
to reveal your age.
Because to me it's
interesting, of course,
that you're 41 because 41 is
the time that people generally
come to see astrologers
because there
are many changes beginning to
happen in life at that time.
So one of the things we
astrologers are looking at
is cycles of life.
And one of the most important
periods of change in our cycles
is the period from
about 41 to 44,
which the previous generation
called the mid-life crisis,
because perhaps in
those days you couldn't
change your life at that age.
It was much more fixed.
And the purpose of the chart is
to give you a bit of a mirror
as to some of that
identity as well.
So it just helps you see--
remember who I am,
what I love, what is
the important stuff about me.
So your rising sign
is the sign Capricorn.
People who first
meet you will see
a lot of the qualities
that come with Capricorn.
And so Capricorn is a person who
is very together in themselves.
They're usually
quite independent.
They're very much in
charge of their own lives.
And usually, since
they are small,
they're a lot like an adult.
They seem to know
what they want--
adults call them
precocious because they're
talk and behave like adults--
and are kind of
self-contained to the point
that it could be
even a disadvantage.
Because people will always
assume Marina's fine.
She's in control.
She's got it under control.
She's fine.
And Scorpion mixed
with Capricorn
won't easily show when
there's a problem.
She will act like
everything's fine,
so no one ever
offers you any help.
They're like, no,
no, she's fine.
I mean, it has its advantages.
It's like if you went
to work in my shop,
by the end of the first day,
I will leave you with the keys
because I know I can trust you.
>> Yes, depend a lot.
>> You will get done
what you need to be done.
Yes, it's fine.
We can trust you.
So letting go is
the Scorpio lesson
that works a little bit
with that Capricorn thing.
But there is something that's
misunderstood about Scorpio
that I'd like to
clear up for you.
People always describe
Scorpio as the scorpion--
that dangerous, little insect
that everyone's afraid of.
And they'll say, Scorpio is
going to sting in the tail.
You know, that
isn't what Scorpio.
The constellation of stars
looks like a scorpion.
But in astrology, Scorpio
has always been an eagle.
And an Eagle is this
animal that flies
above the rest of the world
in order to see its prey.
It can see a little mouse
from a great distance because
of the special
eyes that it's got.
That means it
needs to be higher.
So Scorpio will often
feel a little bit
separated from everything else.
So even when you're
taking part, even when
these are people that
you know, there's
a part of you that will
always feel as if you're
slightly outside watching this.
What does allow
us in your chart--
and I do know this
about you anyway,
but it's very much
in your chart--
is traveling to the point
that, with your chart,
I would worry that
you might never stop.
You might never actually
settle somewhere.
Because there's a little
bit of a discomfort in you
that says-- it's like
a restlessness-- that's
the discomfort I
mean-- that needs
you to see the next place.
Your moon sign is Gemini.
So Gemini is a moon sign.
First, it gives you a
great deal of adaptability,
especially to different
places because the moon
loves new spaces.
And with the moon in
Gemini, any new place
is interesting and
exciting to you.
It doesn't matter
what it is or what
it looks like, you're there.
In terms of your profession,
the other problem
that you're going to
have is that there
isn't an ideal university or
institution that can train you.
There isn't a right
degree for you even.
It's like if you wanted to
go and study at a university,
they don't have that yet.
So it's that you were
going to-- in the end,
it's going to have
to come from you.
You're the innovator.
You're going to have to be
the teacher or something.
>> No, that is true.
I've been self-trained
all my life.
I tried university,
failed spectacularly.
It didn't work for me.
>> Yes.
I'm just looking at
how much money are you
going to make out of that.
You have got the ability to
make money as long as you're
generating it yourself.
Salaries won't get you many,
other people's promises.
Even if you gave your money
to someone else to invest,
I would say do not go there.
>> No, 100% true.
>> Any resources in other
people's hands will not work
for you.
>> It's true.
>> Same also goes for
marrying a rich man.
You're the rich person.
You know it's going
to come from you,
not going to come from
them in any kind of way.
>> I want me a househusband.
>> Yes, that's a very good--
you can be a power.
You can tell him
what's going to happen.
You can be in charge
of financial resources.
It's important then to find
the right kind of people
to support you.
In terms of friends
and social group,
that kind of social group, other
group, it's very easy for you
to achieve your goals.
So that's why we ain't
seen nothing yet.
And since you're
only 41, big time,
because in the next two or three
years, a lot of changes happen.
In your case, just
by the way, the moon
is also connected to health
and says don't smoke.
>> OK.
>> So the health area of
your chart is the lungs.
So for you, smoking would
be especially dangerous,
and pranayama or any
breathing exercises
would be especially healthy.
You can control your health
from breathing, from--
that's quite a clear
area of your chart,
but it's got that
sensitivity of the moon,
picking up on other
people's stuff.
And as I say, if you were
to damage your lungs,
then you're asking
for your own trouble.
>> It does run in the family.
My grandpa, my
father, drugs problem.
Yes, so no smoking.
>> Yes.
And it's interesting
that you say
that because the moon
is also one of the two
genetic planets in astrology.
The moon and Saturn
are the two planets
of childhood, and so our genes.
So that's why it's
not surprising
that you have that
in your family.
So so far, so good.
You're on the track to there.
You're going in the
right direction.
But as it becomes necessary
for you to do something more,
you'll remember, my thing
is to fulfill the promise--
the way I honor my ancestors
for what it's worth because we
don't really know
what they were up to--
is I do what I say and I
fulfill what I put my mind to.
And in the end,
you're the good proof
of why it's so good to
have a chart at birth.
Your nature is to succeed.
The rest is up to you.
It was really great
seeing Marina's chart.
In many ways, she's the
ideal astrologist's client.
Firstly, she was
exactly the right age
to be seeing an astrologer.
And what's important about
that and I think why astrology
is important,
astrology shows people
when things are appropriate--
our life cycles,
when things are changing.
And in astrology, we
recognize that a lot
is changing at around 41 to 43.
So Marina is the perfect
age to need those changes,
to recognize them
coming, and so to relate
at that level to what
I was talking about,
to recognize what I
was talking about.
>> Rod really put me at ease.
He was very warm, very prepared.
And, yes, definitely, he was
spot-on on most of the things
he told me about my personality,
about the way I achieve things
in life, what works
for me, what doesn't.
And mostly, I'm very excited
about the few coming years
because everything he told me
sounds really, really good.
So it's mostly good news and
just pretty much he reinforced.
Sometimes you have
doubts about who you are,
if you're doing things right.
But he actually talked
to me about my flaws
like they were strengths,
and I really loved that.
I didn't have any
expectation at all.
I just decided to do it
because it's a new experience.
And I'm walking away
with a newfound respect,
I think, for this, and
I've learned a lot.
So, yes, I was really positive.
And I'm sure it will help.
It's always great
to see yourself
through somebody else's eyes.
I will definitely recommend
a session with Rod.
So anybody that is a little
bit in doubt or maybe
in a transition time,
sometimes you just
need to hear
something to reinforce
or resolve to go for it.
And he's very diplomatic.
He's got a very nice way
to give you all the info.
So, yes, I will
definitely recommend.
My stance is I
still wouldn't say
I'm a firm believer, just
because I don't know enough
about it.
But I'm definitely curious.
I think I'm going to do
some research on my own
and look into this because
it is really fascinating.
>> Given its antiquity
of over 2,000 years old,
astrology comes from a time
where they had a much richer
definition of fate-- or
what we also call karma,
and they probably did too--
and that is that to simplify
it, one third of things
are fated and unchangeable,
one third of things
are changeable with difficulty,
and one third of things
are changeable with ease.
So the astrologer's
job is to direct people
towards those things
which are changeable
and encourage them as to
how they can be changed
and, with the things
that are unchangeable,
to encourage them to accept
this is how it is, so
work within those parameters.
So as much as
astrologers are trying
to help people make choices--
because the idea of
astrology is if you
understand where
this is heading,
you can make better choices--
despite that, people
will ask the flat-out,
predictive questions.
When am I getting married?
The most common question
often asked by females.
And what is my purpose in life?
Everyone asks that question.
And I find myself having to
explain that purpose itself
is a little fake, the
idea that everyone's
got a special purpose.
Our purpose is to be who we
are as best as we possibly can,
and astrology can help
you see who that is.
>> Studies like astrology
can help us find a connection
between ourselves
and the cosmos,
building the bridge that can
help us understand our place
in the universe, opening us up
to the possibility of guidance
from the other side.
[SOFT AMBIENT MUSIC]